Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of AWS Bites, the show where we discuss interesting
AWS questions in just about five minutes.
But today it is a special show where we are actually going to spend more time than usual
because we want to talk about re-invent, what we are going to spend from re-invent and what
is going to be our wishlist for the event.
And also we're going to take a little bit of time to discuss some of the, what we're
going to call the pre-invent announcements.
So services and features that were released just before re-invent.
My name is Luciano and I'm joined by Eoin.
And given that today we're going to talk about re-invent, you probably know that re-invent
is a five rows of knowledge and announcements, and it's very easy to get lost in all the
announcements and you don't really know where to read and what to follow, which talks you
want to go and watch.
So we are going to try to do a series of live streams on YouTube where we're going to be
sharing our highlights, our favorite, our opinions and impressions.
So make sure to subscribe and turn on the notifications on YouTube so you can be notified
the next time we go live.
So Eoin, do you want to give us a first impression on your wishlist for re-invent or maybe we
can start by looking at last year's biggest announcements?
Yeah.
Ooh, yeah.
It seems like a long time ago now.
Last year, I remember that we had this big focus on hybrid cloud and they announced EKS
anywhere and ECS anywhere.
Basically you could run those container workloads in other clouds or on-prem.
Last year we also had those big announcements on Lambda.
So we had 10 gigabytes of RAM.
We had millisecond pricing and container image support, which was probably a big one.
So yeah, it'd be interesting, is there going to be a central focus on one big topic this
year?
What do you think?
Do you have any, I suppose, what are your top wishlist items?
What would you put top of your list?
Yeah, given that you mentioned Lambda and Fargate, one of the things that I would like to see, and it doesn't feel too complicated from my perspective, so hopefully it's realistic
as an ask to AWS, is to have the ability to enable GPU directly on Lambda or Fargate containers.
Because sometimes you just have a need to do something small, like I don't know, process
a small video or concatenate, I don't know, bits of video together and just assemble them.
Like what we do sometimes to produce the videos for AWS bytes, it will be nice to just build
a Lambda that can do that on demand very quickly.
But because you don't have GPU, it gets trickier and yeah, maybe you can still do it, but it
doesn't feel like you are using the system as best as you can.
So that would be nice to see, I guess it's going to unlock a lot of opportunities to
use Lambda and Fargate also for different kinds of tasks.
Also I have another one that has been a little bit of a frustration lately, which is S3 partitioning
visibility, I'm going to say.
And maybe an opportunity to talk a little bit more about what that means, but in short,
what I mean by that is that S3 is going to try to scale based on your needs and your
usage, but if you really have big spikes of usage, S3 is not going to be able to keep
up and you might get throttled in your attempt to create new files, for instance.
And there are things you can do to improve the situation, you can reach out to support
and you can try to describe them your use cases and they will make sure that the partitioning
configuration that is generally automatic in S3 gets optimized for your use cases.
But that's incredibly complex and not obvious, I guess to most people that you can do that.
So it would be nice to have the opportunity to do all of that in a more self-service way,
where you have maybe a panel, maybe you have APIs and you can say, okay, I'm going to create
files using these patterns, so maybe we can define how to shard the usage of S3 based
on these patterns.
So yeah, I think these are the two things I would put at the top of my wishlist, but
mostly driven by personal need and ideas that I had and frustration that I encountered in
using AWS every day.
Yeah, that one about S3 is, it kind of probably falls into a category of a whole load of, you know, metrics or, you know, features we'd like to see, but you don't get to see them
through the console or they don't have CloudWatch metrics out of the box.
I kind of think if there's anything that you're going to be billed on or throttled on, it
should be available as a metric.
And that also goes for like the number of running containers in ECS or the number of
running EC2 instances.
I'd really like to see that.
So just to add that onto that one.
For my wishlist, I guess I'd like to kind of restate what a lot of people have asked
for in the serverless space, which is a serverless Redis option and a serverless Kinesis option.
So they've been requested a lot of times, but I use them both quite a lot and having
to provision and right-size them can be a bit of a pain when you don't have to with
other things like DynamoDB.
So I'm not surprised they haven't come very quickly because these are challenging things
to do for AWS, but it would be interesting to see if we get them this year.
Especially because I've seen that there are a few competitors, I'm going to say, or a few services offering that as a service.
So it will be interesting to see if AWS decides to attack that space as well.
I hope so.
Yeah.
I think a lot of people were underwhelmed by the MemoryDB announcement because it was
an option for Redis, but it wasn't exactly the option that a lot of people were hoping
for.
I'd also like to hope we see some good Lambda announcements.
I mean, feature-wise Lambda is pretty good as it is, but I'd like to see the SQS triggering
scale up a bit faster and burst a bit faster.
I also think, again, to beat this drum again, it would be great to see some better pricing
options for Lambda so you can start using thousands of Lambdas for big data processing
and batch processing workloads without having to worry about the massive differential between
the Lambda cost for that and using EC2.
Also then on serverless side of things, I'm really interested to watch EventBridge and
Step Functions.
We've seen Step Functions really just accelerate with all the features.
The thing recently where you could invoke any AWS SDK from Step Functions was really
great because it's like this integrate anything with anything capability.
I really like to see more of that.
If we could get some of that in EventBridge too, that would be awesome because it would
remove a load of the need for glue Lambdas that are just forwarding an event from one
source and passing it to another or doing some very basic data transformation.
We're getting spoiled with a lot of these services now, but maintaining Lambdas has
a cost would be great to get rid of a lot of that kind of stuff.
I think those are probably my...
On the last one actually on EventBridge, I'd also like to see...
One of the reasons why I don't adopt EventBridge in all cases is just because you don't get
a really great guarantee on latency and performance like you do with SNS or with Kinesis.
So it would be good to see some improvements there because that would really make it a
game changer for a whole set of new workloads.
So those are probably my top wishlist items.
What else didn't we cover?
Do you have any special mentions?
I have a few other smaller ones thinking again about pains that I encountered dealing with
AWS.
One that also was a very recent experience is that I was trying to do...
To set up a custom domain for a private API.
So an API with a private API gateway.
And basically it is possible, but it requires you to set up so many different things like
load balancers and VPC entry point is called for every gateway.
Oh, the VPC endpoint.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah.
And yeah, it's doable, but it takes forever and it's very hard to test.
And yeah, you have a feeling that you are doing something that should be much simpler.
So hopefully AWS will figure out that, I don't know, maybe they can abstract all this complexity
and just give you a flag that allows you, okay, just connect this domain to this private
API gateway.
So that's something I will make at least my life easier in some of the projects I've been
involved with.
And I'm sure there will be many other people that could use something like that.
And on a similar note, the private static websites could be a lot easier as well, because
if you want to do a public static website, there is plenty of options, especially now
with Amplify, it's even easier.
They will take care of all the setup for you.
But if you want to do a private website, because maybe it's an internal website for a company
and yeah, you are basically on your own again and you have to set up everything from scratch.
So that should be something that could be simplified as well.
And finally, just because you mentioned Redis, I've been thinking that even Redis, it is
trickier than it should be when you just want to debug something and you probably have in
production Redis in a private VPC.
It would be nice to have, I don't know, some UI that can easily just start from the web
console and connect to your Redis instance so that you don't have to set up, I don't
know, Bastion host or VPN access, or sometimes I've done even quick Lambdas in the same VPC
just to be able to quickly interrogate Redis and verify quickly what was going on.
And again, that feels a little bit of an overkill that there could be better ways to just be
able to debug what's going on with a Redis instance in a private VPC.
Yeah, big time I've heard our colleague Gil as well ask for the same thing.
Especially when you're working in a very servilous environment, you don't want to have to spin
up easy to Bastion hosts anymore.
And last year, I think it was last year, we had the announcement of Cloud Shell, which
is like, seemed like a great announcement and similar to what Google Cloud offers.
They're kind of famous for their really nice shell that allows you to get gain access to
cloud.
But as far as I know, they announced that they would add VPC support, but we haven't
seen it arrive yet.
And if you get VPC support, then you could probably access your Redis host and a lot
of other things without having to have that easy to Bastion.
So let's keep our fingers crossed for something around that.
I'm also so interested to see like just on a more kind of blue sky kind of projects to
see if they do any more of a push around kind of low code or no code solutions.
We haven't seen really any great advancements with Honeycode on AWS, but we have seen a
lot of machine learning advancements over the last few years for sure.
And we've had CodeGuru and last year we had Natural Language Interface for QuickSight.
So we can see the kind of potential there around using business language, business domain
expertise to express technology requirements and have a lot of that automated for you.
It's really interesting to see like we still find ourselves with all this great serverless
technology, but we still have to create code applications with APIs and a database and
define all of these layers ourselves, even though for a lot of us, there's a huge amount
of overlap in what we're doing.
So are they going to take that to another level and allow us to create code applications
using Natural Language Interface?
I think that this has obviously been a long time coming, you know, no effective low code
solutions or no code solutions.
But I think with all of the capabilities that AWS has, surely they're best placed to really
deliver first on a really comprehensive solution for this.
Who knows?
So let's see what else.
On the data services, I think we've been using Glue and Athena and I was talking to another
colleague of ours, Mark Hodnett, who's been using Glue and Athena quite a lot recently.
And one of the items he had on his wishlist was bigger nodes for Athena.
I think we've seen Athena grow and grow.
It's become quite popular and quite capable, but it's still quite limited in the default
query execution and also the amount you can do with one worker.
So one of the things Mark suggested was that we might have different pricing options for
Athena where you could pay more for bigger execution capacity.
So bigger memory, a bigger CPU in the backend.
And so I think that's really powerful because that would really help Athena to be a compelling
alternative to a lot of the other data like query solutions out there.
And yeah, I don't know.
Do you think that we hear a lot of complaints around the AWS console and the UI and there's
always some improvements there.
There was some great improvements recently in like the Cognito interface, which got a
lot of attention.
What do you think about documentation?
Do you think there's potentially a documentation update that's worthy of a reinvent keynote
announcement?
I honestly hope for something like that.
I don't know if it's something that, I mean, I think that there are a lot of people inside
AWS that realize that what we have today is maybe a little bit suboptimal, I'm going to
dare to say, because it's easy to get the yellow word of pretty much every AWS service.
But then for any realistic production use case, you are pretty much on your own.
And the reason why I said that there are people inside AWS that understand that is because
I've seen a lot of evangelists in AWS publishing very good tutorials, very good sample application
and spending a lot of time actually trying to show you what it takes to build a more
serious application, maybe even combining different services.
I want to give a shout out for instance to Aitor Lesser for the serverless airline booking
application, which I know is kind of a multi-year effort, but it really shows a serious project,
how it might look like, what kind of challenges you might have to face, how do you set up
deployment, observability and all these kinds of interesting topics.
So definitely a lot more than a simple yellow word.
There has been other activities similar to that that I've seen before, like the Uber
for unicorns.
I'm not sure that's the actual name, but it was an amazing workshop that I did once with
Danilo Poce where basically you were using Lambda to build something like Uber, but you
were booking a unicorn that will take you somewhere.
Of course, fictional application, but you will see some interesting challenges while
trying to build that.
So definitely a lot more in depth than a yellow word.
You will need to use many services together and set up APIs from then and a number of
different things.
I remember the unicorn thing.
I think it was called Wild Ride.
It just came into my head.
Oh yeah, that's the right name.
I think it's good that you gave a shout out there because it's probably worth mentioning.
You know, everybody's constantly adding to our wishlist items and it's okay to demand
great features from a company called AWS, but it's probably worth giving a thank you
and a shout out to all the AWS engineers who have to put in the long hours and the hard
work to put all these things together and probably have a significant amount of workload
and stress at this time of year.
Absolutely.
I can barely imagine what they're going through right now.
Yeah.
On the same topic, I've seen that there is the workshops.aws that maybe is an answer
to this request.
I feel like it's starting to take in a lot more material and a lot more structured workshops
categorized in a way that you can search for the services you need and you want to use.
But I've seen that, for instance, the CDK one, I had a feeling that was very superficial
the first time I did it.
I've seen some updates, but I think there could be a little bit more investment, again,
to make them a little bit more complete and comprehensive and not just be like a list
of bullet points of things to do, but maybe also give you an idea why you might want to
do that or give you different options or maybe a decision tree that tries to guide you through
given a certain use case, you have different options and you can be guided through what's
the best option for your particular use case.
So yeah, that's something that would be, I think, a massive differentiator in AWS because
it's getting more and more traction, more and more people are starting to use it.
And I'm hearing a lot of people complaining that it's very hard to build that knowledge
because most of the time everyone feels left on their own to find out how to solve the
different problems that they have to face.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
So have we covered everything on our wish list, do you think?
Oh yeah.
One last thing on this topic of, well, not necessarily the same topic, but I think it's
quite related.
Speaking of students and people approaching AWS, it's something we mentioned before in
other avenues, but basically I want to stress again that I wish that there was some sort
of support for having maybe limited accounts where you can just play around with AWS and
have a feeling for what it is and understand if you want to learn it or not without having,
for instance, to create an account that requires you to put a credit card and then you might
abuse that account and maybe end up having to pay a lot of money, which can be scary
for many people.
So basically what I would like to see, it's some sort of easy access to AWS that of course
needs to be somewhat limited, but that will give a lot more confidence to students who
just try it and play around with it without being worried about, is it going to cost me
a lot of money that maybe I cannot even afford right now?
Yeah, I'll second that.
Good idea.
Yeah, so should we talk about pre-invent announcement now?
Yeah, that's a good idea.
Let's look back at some of the things we've seen over the past couple of weeks.
And yeah, there was really very recently, there was a data transfer cost change, which
meant that the free tier limit changed for data transfer out of your region and to CloudFront.
And the limit went from one gigabyte to 500 gigabytes, I believe.
So it's quite a jump and it means a lot because there's been a lot of focus on AWS.
AWS data transfer costs recently, especially with the Cloudflare R2 announcement, which
is like S3 compatible alternative.
Another thing I noticed was the SNS publish message batch change.
It seems like a small change enough, but I think it makes sense when you're dealing with
large volumes of messages in event driven applications that you can publish as many
as possible.
So that's the limit being increased from 10 for SNS and SQS actually.
And there was some interesting stuff around Amplify and CDK.
So going back to this kind of low code, no code thing, slightly related is a lot of the
push around Amplify as the entry point to AWS for new users.
And there's clearly been a lot of great work done around Amplify.
And one of the things they're now providing is the ability to move from Amplify into more
of a individual resource development or maintenance using CDK.
So now you can export your application to a CDK application.
It's kind of analogous to an eject button on Amplify maybe in some ways.
But I like that.
I like that idea that you're giving people a more developer friendly and user friendly
onboarding experience for good apps or for mobile apps, but then allowing them to move
on and move into more of a power user cloud formation mode, if you like.
Yeah.
We spoke a lot in a previous episode about how do you move from, I don't know, creating
things more manually to proper infrastructure as code.
I don't think we've mentioned Amplify, but I think this is now a nice addition to a part
where you start a little bit more easily, but then if you really need to scale in production
and build a team around your product, you'd need something like CDK or to manage infrastructure
as code.
So I think this definitely helps that transition from maybe an MVP to something a little bit
more structured.
Yeah.
Speaking of CDK, there was another announcement that was a CDK hot swap and some accelerate,
which seems particularly interesting.
I haven't tried it yet, but basically the promise is that you can have much faster,
I'm going to say deploy time, even though it's not maybe the right word, but basically
every change you do is going to more easily reflected to a development account.
So you can basically try things quickly and see how they look like in a production that
is not a local environment.
So an environment that maybe is not production, but it's not even a local environment.
So imagine it's a real AWS environment that you are using for development.
So that's interesting.
And one pain point that I had recently is around ECS, which seems to be one of the services
supported here for this kind of a new way of trying things on dev accounts.
It's something I really want to try because it takes notoriously a long time to roll out
changes on ECS, just because there is that entire workflow where they try to guarantee
that your service is never going to go down.
So they will hot swap the old new version.
So they need to guarantee that transition in a nice way.
So sometimes it can take up to half an hour to just see deployments.
And while you are trying to troubleshoot something, maybe something like CDK hot swap can help
you to play around and see how things will look like in an environment that is closer
to what you're going to get in production rather than your local environment.
One of the things that we might cover in a future episode is local development and what
the best practices are for development workflows in AWS, particularly for serverless.
I guess this is like AWS saying, don't worry about the local development environment and
trying to simulate the cloud on your laptop.
Just let's help you to get your code to the cloud quicker and improve that developer feedback
loop.
Mm-hmm.
And I hope that that is going to be another topic where AWS is going to invest more and
more because it's definitely something that I'm hearing everyone, the first time they
approach the cloud moving maybe from on-premise where they're used to do a lot of local development
and then just ship some sort of package.
They are all saying, okay, now what do I do?
I am on my own and I cannot wait half an hour before I see what things look like in production.
Yeah, they shouldn't have to.
Absolutely.
There was also something around SQS partial batch responses.
So if I understood correctly, it is now possible to basically take a batch from SQS and be
able to say from this batch, a certain number of messages succeeded.
So all good.
We can remove them from the queue and other ones failed.
So they will be automatically put back in the queue and then picked again in the next
batch from another worker.
And I think that looks like something small, but I think it could make a big difference
because I remember this has been a problem for a long time and certain frameworks also
had their own built-in solution that was trying to kind of re-implement this feature inside
the framework just because this is such a common problem and it's very hard to build
your own solution that works effectively.
And yeah, sometimes you just end up missing messages or not retrying things or trying
things more than needed just because you haven't figured out how to deal with SQS batching
errors.
Yeah, that is great because you've had it in Kinesis, I think for a while, but it's good to have this support in Lambda for SQS as well.
So I guess I'm going to throw one last question for this special episode that is given that
we are going to start re-invent very soon, how are we going to keep up?
Do we have any recommendation for people?
I recommend that don't expect to be able to keep up to date with everything.
If you're busy, like most people are busy and working day jobs and have plenty to deal
with, so I would say first thing is if you're busy, don't worry about it.
The best thing you can hope for often is just to get some peripheral awareness of what's
going on and maybe it'll help you some point in the future.
Like if you're getting into AWS, it's probably worth dedicating time and attention to it
most if you are starting on AWS, if you happen to be able to get to re-invent physically
in Las Vegas, but if you're starting new projects and you're keen to learn more and have the
time and the opportunity, re-invent is a really great training and learning opportunity because
there's so much knowledge, the speakers are excellent, the topics are really well presented
in great detail and it's always up to date content.
So it's probably the best way to learn about AWS resources.
I still go back to previous re-invent talks all the time to learn about new services.
So that's what I'd recommend.
Do you have any great tips for staying up to date and keeping up to date with re-invent?
Maybe the only thing I want to add to that is that you don't have to follow every single announcement or every single talk.
Obviously there are areas of AWS that are more interesting to you based on the services
you use the most.
So you can have a look at the agenda in advance and just select topics that are more relevant
to you rather than trying to absorb everything.
I think if you try to do that, it's definitely going to be an overkill rather than just focusing
on the things that are more important to you.
So maybe that's small tip, but I suppose it can help or at least that's how I'm trying
to approach the event myself.
And then finally, of course, we have to do our user promotional message where we say,
if you follow us with AWS Bites, we'll try to summarize things as best as we can for
you.
So that's another option on the table for you.
Yep.
Those live episodes, we'll try and distill everything down to some brief and digestible
highlights.
That's the plan anyway.
Yeah, absolutely.
And with that, I realized that we don't probably have the perfect strategy.
So definitely feel more than welcome to share with us what is going to be your strategy.
So leave us a comment, send us a message, and we'll be more than happy to compare ideas
and results with you during and after reInvent.
Okay.
Any final remark?
If anybody else has any last minute wishlist items or any highlights they want to call
out, then let us know in the comments or on Twitter.
And we'd love to share them and talk more about them as we go through the live episodes
during reInvent.
Absolutely.
And with that, I think we are going to close here this special episode.
I hope it was interesting to you.
Definitely give us feedback even on the format of this kind of special episode.
Maybe we'll do even more of them even after reInvent if you're liking them.
So definitely send us all the feedback that you have.
And with that, that's all.
We'll see you at the next episode.
Bye.
I'll see you next time.
you